you oct. 6 editorial `` the ill homeless `` refer to research by we and six of we colleague that be report in the sept. 8 issue of the journal of the american medical association .
you comment imply we have discover that the `` principal cause `` of homelessness be to be find in the large number of mentally ill and substance-abusing people in the homeless population .
we have make no such statement .
it be clear that most mentally ill people and most alcoholic do not become homeless .
the `` cause `` of homelessness be poorly understand and complex in any individual case .
in quote from we research you emphasize the high prevalance of mental illness and alcoholism .
you do not note that the homeless people we examine have a multitude of physical disorder in addition to they psychiatric problem and substance abuse .
they suffer from malnutrition , chest disease , cardiovascular disorder , skin problem , infectious disease and the aftereffect of assault and rape .
homeless people not only lack safety , privacy and shelter , they also lack the elementary necessity of nutrition , cleanliness and basic health care .
in a recent report , the institute of medicine point_out that certain health problem may predispose a person to homelessness , other may be a consequence of it , and a third category be compose of disorder whose treatment be difficult or impossible if a person lack adequate shelter .
the interaction between health and homelessness be complex , defy sweeping generalization as to `` cause `` or `` effect . ``
if we look_to the future , prevent homelessness be a important objective .
this will require we to develop a much more sophisticated understanding of the dynamics of homelessness than we currently possess , a understanding that can be develop only through careful study and research .
william r. breakey m.d. pamelum j. fischer m.d. department of psychiatry john hopkin university school of medicine baltimore
a study by tulane prof. jame wright say homelessness be due to a complex array of problem , with the common thread of poverty .
the study show that nearly 40 % of the homeless population be make_up of woman and child and that only 25 % of the homeless exhibit some combination of drug , alcohol and mental problem .
accord to dr. wright , homelessness be `` simultaneously a housing problem , a employment problem , a demographic problem , a problem of social disaffiliation , a mental health problem , a family violence problem , a problem create by the cutback in social welfare spending , a problem result from the decay of the traditional nuclear family , and a problem intimately connect to the recent increase in the number of person live below the poverty level . ``
leighton e. cluff m.d. president robert wood johnson foundation princeton , n.j .
to quote the highly regarded director of a privately fund drop-in center for the homeless in new york : `` if you be homeless , you do n't sleep for fear of be rob or murder .
after you first three week of sleep deprivation , you be scarcely in touch with reality any more ; without psychiatric treatment , you may well be unable to fend for yourself ever again . ``
some of the homeless , obviously , have pre-existing mental illness or addiction .
but many other have fall through crack in the economy into the grim , brutal world of we city street .
once there , what way of escape be open to they other than drink , drug or insanity ?
maxwell r.d. vo brooklyn , n.y .
you dismiss as `` sentimental `` the view that the reduction of federal housing-assistance program by 77 % might have play a significant role in the increase number of man and woman sleep on we city street during the reagan-bush year .
there be no sign that you bother to consider the inverse of you logic : namely , that mental illness and substance abuse might be to some degree consequence rather than cause of homelessness .
you research stop when a convenient assertion could be make .
robert s. jenkin cambridge , mass .
of the approximately 200 sponsor of the recent march in washington for the homeless , you choose to cite such group as the national association of home builder and the international union of bricklayer and allied craftsman , insinuate that the march get its major support from self-serving group that `` know a good thing when they see it , `` and that the crusade be base on greed or the profit motive .
but be n't the desire for profit the drive force behind those who subscribe to , and advertise in , you paper ?
why do n't you mention the ymca or the ywca or catholic charity usa or a hundred other nonprofit organization that participate in the march ?
as for the finding on the 203 baltimore homeless who undergo psychiatric examination , I suggest you conduct you own survey .
choose 203 business executive , include , perhaps , someone from you own staff , and put they out on the street , to be deprive for one month of they home , family and income .
I would predict that within a short time most of they would find thunderbird a satisfactory substitute for chiva regal and that they `` normal `` phobia , anxiety , depression and substance abuse would increase dramatically .
ruth k. nelson cullowhee , n.c .
`` feeding frenzy `` ( henry holt , 326 page , $ 19.95 ) , a highly detailed account of the wedtech scandal , begin on a reassuring note .
right up front in the preface , co-author william sternberg give we a example of he own integrity .
when offer a free trip from the bronx , wedtech 's home , to washington , d.c. , by one of wedtech 's principal , he tell the reader , `` mindful of accept anything of value from those I be write_about , I decline . ``
any question as to why a author would believe this plaintive , high-minded note of assurance be necessary be answer by read this book about sticky finger and sweaty scammer .
bribe by bribe , mr. sternberg and he co-author , matthew c. harrison jr. , lead we along the path wedtech travel , from its inception as a small manufacturing company to the status of full-fledged defense contractor , entrust with the task of produce vital equipment for the army and navy .
the book revolve_around john mariotta , the founder of the company , and fred neuberger , who become he partner soon after wedtech 's creation .
although start in 1965 , wedtech do n't really get roll until 1975 , when mr. neuberger discover the federal government 's section 8 a minority business programme .
this be a johnson-era , great society creation that mandate certain government contract be award noncompetitively to minority business .
mr. neuberger realize that , although of italian ancestry , mr. mariotta still could qualify as a minority person since he be bear in puerto rico .
the two partner merely have to falsify the true ownership of the corporation .
instead of 50/50 it become , on paper only , two-thirds mariotta , one-third neuberger , and they be in the program and off to the race .
besides be a `` minority-owned company `` wedtech be locate in the south bronx , a blighted area , make famous by jimmy carter in he 1976 presidential campaign .
the company plug itself right into carter campaign rhetoric about rebuild the south bronx and keep use the minority -- south bronx angle through the reagan '80 .
start with congressman mario biaggus now serve a jail sentence , the company begin a career of bribe federal , state and local public official and those close to public official , right up to and include e. robert wallach , close friend and adviser to former attorney general ed meese .
wedtech do n't just use old fashion bribery .
it make ample use of the modern technique of influence peddling , retain politically connect `` respectable `` law firm , investment banker and political consultant , include reagan confidant lyn nofzinger .
when necessary , it seek and receive assistance from organize crime .
sometimes the bribe become partner in the company .
wedtech management use the merit system .
if you be especially helpful in a corrupt scheme you receive not just cash in a bag , but equity .
if you be not a effective crook , you find yourself out in the cold , a fate that eventually befall mr. mariotta , the firm 's semiliterate `` minority `` person .
but despite the sensational nature of the revelation and the breezy , easy-to-read tabloid writing style , `` feeding frenzy `` often fall_short of grip reading .
none of the scam show much ingenuity : auditor find crookery the first day on the job .
wedtech 's scammer simply bribe they to shut_up .
the scammer themselves be garden-variety low life , conspicuous consumer who want big house , mercedes car , beautiful woman , expensive clothes .
among the lot of they , not one be wrestle with good and evil , or especially intelligent or even temporarily insane .
the one character at least somewhat interesting be irving loui lobsenz , a pediatrician who change he name to rusty kent london and become a master gambler and author of a book on blackjack .
he enter the story toward the end , just in time to get arrest .
absorb in dole out `` feeding frenzy 's `` tidbit , the author gloss_over the root cause of wedtech , namely the section 8 a federal program under whose auspices the scandal take_place .
they do at least come_around to say that the court might want to end `` rigid affirmative action program . ``
program like section 8 a be a little like leave gold in the street and then express surprise when thief walk by to scoop it up .
numerous other scandal , among they the one at hud , have the same characteristic as wedtech .
they take_place in government program that seem tailor-made for corruption .
why be program like this not eliminate ?
`` feeding frenzy `` do provide a few clue .
in and around all level of government in the u.s. be group of people who can best be describe as belong to a political insider commercial party .
they know that whenever government be redistribute wealth , regulate commerce or maintain a large defense establishment , there be big money to be make in influence , broker or sell the process and decision of government .
they be we version of the east bloc 's nomenklatura and they have absolutely no wish to see anything change .
how many government program and policy exist because they line the pocket of political insider ?
this be the real issue raise by the wedtech scandal .
mr. stern be chairman and chief executive officer of the new york state urban development corp. , 1983-85 .
I have to reach back to french 101 when the monsieur avec clipboard lean over my shoulder during the coffee phase of dinner and ask whether I want to ride in a montgolfiere .
I be a last-minute read interlope attendee at a french journalism convention and so far the festivity have be take_up entirely by eating , drinking , smoking , sleeping and drinking .
the man with the clipboard represent a halfhearted attempt to introduce a bit of les sportif into we itinerary .
but as the french embody a zen-like state of blase when it come_to athletics try find a nautilus machine in pari , my fellow conventioner be have none of it .
the diner at my table simply light more gauloise and scoff at the suggestion of interrupt a perfectly good saturday morning to go golfing or even montgolfing ballooning to you ; the brother montgolfier , french of course , be the world 's first hot-air balloonist .
back in the u.s.a. this kind of chi-chi airborne activity win heartwarmingly covetous response .
as in : `` you go balloon ? ? ! !
in france ? ? ! ! ``
american it seem have follow malcolm forbe 's hot-air lead and take_to ballooning in a heady way .
during the past 25 year , the number of balloonist those who have pass a federal aviation authority lighter-than-air test have swell from a couple hundred to several thousand , with some estimate run as high as 10,000 .
some 30 balloon show be hold annually in the u.s. , include the world 's largest convocation of ersatz phinea fogg -- the nine-day albuquerque international balloon fiesta that attract some 800,000 enthusiast and more than 500 balloon , some of which be fetchingly shape to resemble carman miranda , garfield or a 12-story-high condom .
the condom balloon be deny official entry status this year .
but in epinal , a gray 16th-century river town adjacent to france 's vosge mountain region , none of these yankee-come-lately enthusiasm for thing aloft be evident .
ballooning at the de rigueur hour of 6 a.m. hold all the attraction for most people of sunrise root-canal work .
feel the nagging of a culture imperative , I promptly sign_up .
the first thing anybody will tell you about ballooning be that it require zip in the way of athletic prowess , or even a measure of derring-do .
so long as you do n't look down .
they will also tell you that even if you hate height , you can still balloon .
I still say do n't look down .
at least not when you be ascend .
what they wo n't tell you be not to go aloft in anything you do n't want to get wet .
I be not refer to the traditional champagne drenching during the back-on-terra-firma toast .
I be talk about landing in a canal .
in a porous wicker basket .
with a pilot who speak no english .
to wit , my maiden voyage and novitiate be refer to as virgin begin at dawn on a dew-sodden fairway and end at noon in a soggy field .
balloon flight almost always occur at dawn or dusk , when the wind be lightest .
in between come lot of coffee drinking while watch the balloon inflate and lot of stand around decide who would fly in what balloon and in what order the basket hold no more than four passenger .
when it be n't my turn in the balloon I follow its progress from the `` chase car , `` listen to the driver holler into a walkie-talkie .
after long stretch of this attendant ground activity come 20 or so lovely minute of drift above the vosge watch the silver mist rise off the river and the french cow amble about the field .
it ' hard not to feel that god 's in he heaven with this kind of bird's-eye view of the world , even if you pilote in silly plaid beret keep point_out how `` belle `` it all be .
eventually little french farmer and they little french farmwife come out of they stone house and put they hand above they tiny eye and squint at we .
no wonder .
we be come down straight into they canal .
see , the other rule of thumb about ballooning be that you ca n't steer .
and neither can you pilot .
you can go only up or down by heat the balloon 's air with a propane burner , which do make the top of you head feel hot and ride the air current .
which make the chase car necessary .
most balloonist seldom go higher than 2,000 foot and most average a leisurely 5-10 mile a hour .
when the balloon be cruise along at a steady altitude there be little sense of motion .
only when one be ascend -- or in we case descend a tad trop rapidement -- do one feel , well , airborne in a picnic basket .
`` what ' he do ? `` hiss my companion , who be the only other english-speaking member of the convention and whose knuckle be white .
`` attention , `` yell we pilot as we basket plunge into the canal .
`` you bet attention , `` I yell back , leap atop the propane tank , `` I be wear alligator loafer ! ``
we pilot simply laugh , fire up the burner and with another blast of flame lift we , oh , a good 12-inch above the water level .
we scuttle along for a few foot before he plunge we into the drink again .
eventually we come to rest in a soggy patch of field where we have the exquisite pleasure of scramble out of the basket into the mud while the french half of we ballooning tag team scramble in .
I look at my watch .
barely half-an-hour aloft .
back in the chase car , we drive around some more , get get_stuck a ditch , enlist the aid of a local farmer to get_out the trailer hitch and pull_out we out of the ditch .
we finally rendezvous with we balloon , which have come to rest on a dirt road amid a clutch of epinaler who watch we disassemble we craft -- another half-an-hour of non-flight activity -- that include the precision routine of yank the balloon to the ground , punch all the air out of it , roll_up it up and cram it and the basket into the trailer .
it be the most exercise we 'd have all morning and it be follow by we drive immediately to the nearest watering hole .
this mean return to the golf course , where we watch a few french duffer maul the first tee while we sit under cinzano umbrella , I nurse a espresso and my ego .
a whole morning of ballooning and I have be off the ground barely 30 minute .
still , I figure the event 's envy-quotient back in the u.s.a. be near peerless .
as for the ride back to camp , we pilot and all the other french-speaking passenger clamber into the chase car .
my american companion and I be leave to ride alfresco in the wicker basket .
as we streak by a blase gendarme , I could n't resist rear up on my soggy loafer and salute .
ms. de vry be a free-lance writer .
