u.n. group draft plan to reduce emission
the u.n.-sponsored climate conference -- characterize so far by unruly posturing and mutual recrimination -- gain renew focus friday with the release of a document outline ambitious greenhouse-gas reduction over the next 40 year , with industrialize nation shoulder most of the burden in the near term .
the text , which could provide the basis for a final political deal to regulate greenhouse_gas , highlight the remain obstacle as much as it illuminate a path forward .
but it be see as a important advance in a negotiation that be run out of time , with more than 100 world leader arrive in copenhagen next week .
forge by a u.n. ad-hoc working_group , the text be silent on how much money rich country would give poor one to cope with global_warming over the short and long term .
and it provide a range of option for the key question , include how developed and major emerge economy would cut they carbon output , and what would be the upper_limit of global temperature rise that policymaker would be willing to tolerate .
it give a lot of flexibility to the process , say john coequyt , senior washington representative for the sierra club .
michael zammit cutajar , who draft the six-page document , boil down a 180-page negotiation text to focus on what the u.n. 's top climate official , yvo de boer , describe as `` the big picture . ''
it show the outline for a possible deal , in which industrial nation would collectively cut they emission by 2020 by 25 to 45 percent compare with 1990 level , while major developing_country would reduce theirs during the same period by 15 to 30 percent .
together , the country would cut emission between 50 and 95 percent by 2050 .
the european_union give the talk a boost as well on friday by pledge to provide $ 3.6 billion a year over the next three year to help poorer country adapt to the impact of climate_change -- from cope with flood and drought to avoid deforestation .
still , friday feature the same sort of verbal firework that have dominate the talk for the past week .
u.s. special climate envoy todd stern reject language require binding cut of greenhouse-gas emission for industrialized country compare with voluntary one by major emerge economy if they be not fund by the developed world .
the move signal that the obama administration be take a hard_line with china than bush_administration official do just two year ago .
the united_states be not go to do a deal without the major developing_country step up and take action , say stern , who also complain that the text do not do enough to make sure the cut could be verify by outside observer .
stern make he comment a hour after chinese vice foreign_minister he yafeus say america 's top climate negotiator be either lack `` common_sense '' or be `` extremely irresponsible '' for say earlier in the week that the united_states would not help china financially to cope with global_warming .
with the future economic trajectory of the world 's major_power at stake , fault_line have erupt both within the develop world and between the industrial world and emerge economy .
the current battle be as much about save individual economy as save the planet , with china and united_states feud over they respective obligation while poorer nation insist that the world 's two_dozen most influential country be ignore the scientific imperative to take bolder action .
ricardo ulate , a costa rican delegate , say it ' not surprising that the major_power be fight over who should bear the cost for curb greenhouse_gas , even as vulnerable country have become more aggressive in seek to hold the big emitter accountable for they action .
this be clearly a game where a new economic hegemony be be develop , say ulate , who also serve as the regional mexico and central_america climate_change adviser for conservation international .
some of the country most vulnerable to the impact of climate_change indicate they would continue to push for a legally bind treaty in copenhagen , although most of the major participant say the talk will produce a political deal at best .
the alliance of small island state , which have 43 member , produce a 24-page draft treaty proposal early friday morning .
artur runge-metzger , who head international climate negotiation on behalf of the european commission , say the push by small island nation have `` put political pressure on the entire political process , '' in part because they be now unify and demand action from emerge economy such as china and india .
the talk take on new urgency as delegate focus on the fact that they must resolve most of the outstanding issue before the head of government arrive to strike a deal .
high-level official such as indian environment minister jairam ramesh and the chinese vice minister step off plane and race through the bellum center 's hall to closed-door meeting and news_conference so they could stake out claim that will be arbitrate over the next week .
the sheer sprawl of the gathering -- where 13,000 people move in and out of the convention center each day , guitar-playing activist put on nightly show mock the country they think be sell out , and draft proposal be pass hand-to-hand on paper rather than via e-mail -- pose a challenge .
the intensity be only build : nearly all of the key minister be now here , and as early as wednesday 60 head of government will be in copenhagen .
we be get into the big_league , say carlo manuel rodriguez , vice_president for global policy at conservation international .
the heavyweight be come .
baskonium give away a victory in israel
caja laboral achieve a stunning 82-91 victory on they visit to the maccabee electra court despite dusko ivanovic 's team 's heavy loss , and after the great performance by mizra teltovic , who be the best on he team with eight three-pointer score ( 29 point ) , they now at the top of they group .
the vitorian team know to make up for the significant absence of herrmann , oleson , huerta and micov with a big dose of involvement and teamwork , even though it have to hold out until the end to take the victory .
additionally , they huge success from the sideline , with 16 three pointer score , have a lot to do with the final triumph .
the game start out in favor of the azulgrana , who put themselves ahead on the scoreboard from the start .
as vitora 's first four basket be from the perimeter , the speculation be already that they have jump into the israeli net with hot wrist .
english and teletovic be the main scorer of the 18-20 at the end of the first_period .
the second quarter be more of the same , but the alavan team opt for the inside game of barac and the work of eliyahu , who be greet with whistle and applause at he return home , to continue increase they lead by half-time ( 34-43 ) .
teletovic have already begin to stand out as the best on he team with 13 point , even though splitter 's `` six fewer '' point already signal that it be n't go to be the best night for the brazilian .
but the game , despite be head for halftime , be not more decidedand the maccabee try to remind the vitorian that not just anybody win on they court , and with the ` hand of elia ' put the pressure on , they manage to get involve in the game .
eidson and pninus play a decisive role in the `` yellow ' '' return to the light .
more disadvantage
ivanovic 's player , injured but far from dead , need to run a couple of play correctly before they could breathe , and that ' when the machine gun marza teletovic arrive , with three almost consecutive three-pointer and the help of english and riba , he bring the scoreboard back to a reassuring lead ( 54-67 ) , which the home team manage to narrow down at the end of the third quarter ( 57-67 ) .
the alava work themselves to the bone in the last period , and english and san emeterio ( 65-75 ) have already make it clear that they be not go to let anyone take away what they have earn during the first thirty minute .
however , pninus and eidson , the best on they team , do not give up and try to keep they team alive from the three-point line ( 70-77 ) .
in spite of this , and with splitter foul out , ivonic 's team do n't rush , defend well , and , even though the israeli come close at the last_minute , the game be already win and victory escape tel aviv for the first time in the season .
wall_street close without momentum , slow by a strengthening dollar
the new_york_stock_exchange close with no particular heading on friday , in a market tear between better than expect indicator in the united_states and a strengthening dollar : the dow_jones gain 0.63 % but the nasdaq drop 0.03 % .
accord to final closing figure , the dow jone industrial average have rise by 65.67 point to 10 471.50 point , whereas the nasdaq , with a technology predominance , fall by 0.55 point to 2 190.31 point .
the wider standard &amp; poor 's 500 have itself advance by 0.37 % ( 4.06 point ) to 1 106.41 point .
frankly , the market be very calm , observe mace blicksilver of marblehead asset management .
it remain within a narrow_margin ; trading volume have become very weak , and I think that this will remain the case until the end of the year .
the trend be support by the publication of better than expect economic indicator , which `` have contribute to improve market opinion in relation to the robustness of the economic recovery '' , summarise charle schwab 's analyst .
in the united_states , retail sale have increase by 1.3 % in november , for the second month in a row , and far more than predict .
moreover , the confidence of american consumer have clearly bounce back in december , to 73.4 against 67.4 the previous month , accord to preliminary estimate from michigan university 's index .
the index have , however , be slow by a renew rise of the dollar , to a new two-month high against the euro , which `` put downward pressure on the sector that be sensitive to the economic situation '' , explain owen fitzpatrick from deutsche bank .
technology security have thereby lose some ground .
the bond market have fall .
treasury 10-year bond yield have grow to 3.540 % against 3.482 % on tuesday evening , and 30-year bond yield be at 4.497 % against 4.492 % the previous evening .
iraqi oil ministry reach deal with 10 foreign oil_company
despite concern about violence and political instability , the iraqi government manage to attract major oil_company to rebuild its ailing infrastructure during two auction that conclude saturday .
the 10 deal the iraqi oil ministry reach with foreign oil_company suggest that china , russia and european oil firm be poise to play a major role in refurbish iraq 's oil_industry , cripple by decade of war and sanction .
american company walk away with stake in just two of the 10 auction field .
seven american company have pay to participate in the second auction , which begin friday .
the only one that submit a bid lose .
two american company reach deal for field auction in june .
the meager representation of american oil giant in iraq 's open oil_industry surprise analyst .
iraq finally open its door after six year of war , and instead of u.s. company , you have asian and european lead the way , say ruba husarus , the editor of iraq oil forum , a online news outlet .
it will be a long_time before anything else will be on offer in iraq .
concern over security , underscore by massive coordinate bombing tuesday , and political instability as the u.s. military withdraw , likely keep american oil_company from venture more forcefully in iraq , which have the world 's third-largest proven crude reserve , analyst say .
u.s. firm be in some case at a disadvantage because rival , particularly the chinese and other government control energy firm , have markedly lower labor cost and be more prone to take risk because they do n't respond to shareholder .
exxon-mobil and occidental petroleum inc. be the only american company that reach deal with the ministry .
major u.s. firm such as chevron and conocophillip , which have cultivate close tie with the iraqi oil ministry and have provide technical advice in recent year , walk away empty-handed .
russian company lukoil and gazprom be the top stakeholder in two of the contract award this weekend .
state-owned china national petroleum corporation bid on more contract than any other company and walk away with large stake in contract for two major field .
we all know that china be on track to become a major economic as well as technological power , oil ministry spokesman assam jihad say .
we feel confident that the chinese company will be on par with its competitor and will deliver on its commitment towards iraq .
company pre-selected to submit bid make offer that be then compare to the per barrel fee the ministry be willing to pay for boost output above current level at each field .
us bank repay state support
the crisis-hit us major bank be break free from they state shackle .
on wednesday bank of america repay the support from the bank protection fund tarp in the amount usd 45 billion ( nearly eur 30 billion ) in one go .
and , accord to report from us broadcaster cnbc , citigroup be also plan to repay the state support .
the institution thereby want to wiggle themselves free from the restriction go hand-in-hand with the acceptance of the money , such as the limit on manager bonus and the pay of high charge .
bank of america have raise some usd 19 billion from investor through convertible loan .
the rest of the amount be take from its own kitty , which be well fill through the sale of business unit .
bank head kenneth lewi extend he express thanks to the american taxpayer on wednesday evening : the cash injection help over a very difficult time .
the bank overstretch at the height of the financial crisis by take over the investment bank merrill lynch .
citigroup also plan to raise cash on the capital market to free itself from its liability with the state .
already on thursday , the us bank be able to announce a capital increase of some usd 20 billion , report cnbc with reference to circle .
a citigroup spokesman decline to comment .
goldman sach , jp morgan chase and morgan stanley have already repay they support in june .
cheshire appeal will point to twitter
there be half_a_dozen of they typing away in the courtroom row .
minute by minute , they send out report of gruesome testimony via twitter .
in the end , the defense say , there be more than 140,000 twitter message about the trial that deal with rape and child tie to they bed in a house that be set ablaze .
on thursday , the widely follow trial of steven j. haye , who be convict of kill three member of a cheshire , conn. , family , be set to come to a official end with the judge 's imposition of the death sentence vote for by the jury .
but lawyer for mr. haye have already make court filing that sketch out appeal argument that be likely to occupy the court for year .
one of the most provocative be that the intense reporting on the trial - include mainstream reporter ' extensive use of twitter - create a `` circus atmosphere '' and such widespread , instant saturation with inflammatory detail that the jury be improperly sway by public passion .
the claim could force appeal judge to grapple with the question of whether new technology require new courtroom rule .
`` as I experience it during this trial , I think there ' a real danger that the inclusion of new technology in the courtroom be affect a individual 's fair-trial right , '' say thoma j. ullmann , mr. haye 's chief defense_lawyer .
the trial_judge , jon c. blue of state superior_court , tersely reject the claim in a ruling last week , say that the news_media be `` carefully controlled '' and that there be no evidence the jury be drive by passion .
but that be not likely to be the last_word on the issue .
for decade , appeals_court have recognize that coverage of notorious case can raise question about a trial 's fairness .
in a landmark 1966 ruling , the united_states_supreme_court overturn the conviction of a cleveland osteopath , dr. sam sheppard , for the murder of he wife , say in its decision , sheppard v. maxwell , that there be a `` carnival atmosphere at trial '' because of the news_media .
the crime be believe by some to have be the inspiration for the television_show and the movie `` the fugitive . ''
some lawyer say appeals_court review mr. haye 's conviction half a century later might be intrigue by the argument that new rule could be necessary to govern way of communicate from courtroom unimagine at the time of dr. sheppard 's case .
`` there be a general reason for concern about the impact of the new media '' in high-profile trial , say john j. donohue iii , a stanford law school professor who study the connecticut death_penalty and write a report that say it be arbitrarily enforce .
professor donohue say some appeal judge might be intrigue by the idea that limit instant communication from courtroom might make trial fairer .
the twitter issue be just one of many outline by mr. haye 's lawyer that be likely to be argue for year , delay a execution .
the defense_lawyer also claim , for example , that mr. haye may have be prejudice when judge blue decline to allow they to test potential juror ' reaction by show they grisly crime-scene photograph during jury selection .
some of the juror have say they be horrify by the photograph of the victim , jennifer hawke-petit , 48 , and she daughter , hayley , 17 , and michaelum , 11 .
the defense_lawyer say they will also challenge the constitutionality of the death_penalty and argue that the judge wrongly remove a juror who have be critical of prosecutor and that he improperly add pressure for a verdict by he unusual decision to direct the jury to deliberate over a weekend .
the juror be not sequester .
but they argument about the effect of the intense coverage of the trial may draw the most interest .
they note in a challenge to the verdict file last month that the case dominate the news in connecticut and be discuss during the election campaign by candidate for governor and the united_states_senate .
they argue that the news_media continually fan the flame of emotion about the case .
`` the daily crush of media tweet , camera and reporter outside the courthouse , '' the lawyer write , `` be unlike anything ever see here in new_haven and maybe statewide . ''
they focus on the twitter coverage be controversial .
in interview , some journalist say the claim that instant news be more incendiary than report deliver more slowly be a luddite view that would make poor court policy govern coverage of future trial .
but some lawyer say appeals_court be often attract to argument that social and technological change require adaptation by the court .
mr. haye 's lawyer be press that claim .
in they filing , they refer to the supreme_court 's 1966 decision overturn dr. sheppard 's conviction because of the trial coverage and make it clear they would claim that the new media require new rule .
`` this case , '' they write , `` represent the sheppard v. maxwell of the 21st century . ''
sport and fraud law
trick such as those of alonso and ramo before the ajax demonstrate wittiness but not the will to get remove of a sanction .
the expulsion presumably forge by two player of real madrid ( xabus alonso and sergio ramo ) in the game play on the 23rd of november against ajax in european champion league have cause river of ink to be write about if such behavior be or be not unsportsmanlike and if , both player should be sanction by uefa .
as we all know , a few minute before the end of the game ( that they team have already win ) , both player deliberately waste time which make the referee show the second yellow card to both of they .
this way , and since real madrid will finish as leader of its group , both player will fulfil the prescribed sanction during the next game of league , against auxerre , and will be able to get rid of the card the following phase .
finally , the committee of discipline of the uefa have sanction with two game the trainer of the team , jose mourinho , and with different economic amount the implied player .
the provocation of a yellow card in similar circumstance as this one be not a new practice , but rather frequent in the world of football .
it be so extended that it part of the ethos , of the unwritten rule , but follow nonetheless by this sport .
part of the debate arise in the related case be cause by the fact that have be carry out by team of the real madrid organization ( that in its hymn presume of nobility and honor , and that have fine its player for analogous act ) and by the dramatization orchestrate , apparently , by mourinho , who add one more to he expanded history of histrionic and provoking technician .
anyway , the debate deal with if that type of behavior not prohibit specifically by the regulation contradict the principle of the sport , that be to say , if with these action fraud be commit ; then , indeed , they be respectful action with the sport regulation , but they seem to elude its sense .
the matter examine the type of damage that be bring to the sport spirit .
one of the advantage that include the sport spirit be the physical integrity of the opposite player , aspect that with these action be n't put into danger , that be to say , there be no violent game .
another of these advantage to which it be allude to with the fare-play be to avoid that the team of the lawbreaker player take advantage unjustly of the opposite team , which do not happen either .
however , the paradoxical thing about the action of the player of real madrid be that it do not comply to what we normally characterize as legal_fraud , because the violation of the rule be not make secretly as to try to avoid the sanction , but they action be most evident and thus they receive punishment from the referee .
they wait for and accept the sanction with no complaint .
another question be what type of advantage the violator obtain in the action deliberately carry out .
here it seem necessary to state that it be n't a disadvantageous situation for rival nor be a obtain benefit in the same game , because evidently the result of the action suppose leave they own team with less player .
and neither be it a useful strategy for the next game , because the club will not be able to count on those player .
the advantage , obviously , consist in the fact that the player will begin the following phase of the championship without card that could threaten they participation in a future game .
but it be about a long term advantage , with a certain degree of indetermination , because the team can be eliminate first of change , and in addition with this action the player fulfil a sanction game and go to the second cycle of card , in which the suspension by card accumulation take place with one less than in the first cycle .
so that , by pass round , it be not so clear that it be a advantage .
those action be really against the sport spirit , which be part of the strategic decision that favor take advantage allow by the rule .
regard this assumption , the player do not act in order to avoid the application of the sanction ( this would have be a clear case of legal_fraud ) , but rather choose when to obey it .
they make a strategic decision without avoid the punishment .
although the border between the wittiness and the law fraud be diffuse , in this occasion I believe it be a clear case of wittiness .
the controversy seem to arise from two factor : because it be about two auto expulsion and the way the transmission of the directive be carry out to cause they .
the damage bring about to the principle of the sport by these action be not as much ethical as aesthetic .
arsenic-tolerant microbe raise possibility of new type of life on earth , or elsewhere
the discovery of a strange bacterium that can use arsenic as one of its nutrient widen the scope for find new form of life on earth and possibly beyond .
while researcher discover the unusual bacterium here in earth , they say it show that life have possibility beyond the major element that have be consider essential .
`` this organism have dual capability . ''
`` it can grow with either phosphorus or arsenic . ''
`` that make it very peculiar , though it fall short of be some form of truly ` alien ' life , '' comment paul c. w. davy of arizona state university , a co-author of the report appear in thursday 's online edition of the journal science .
six major element have long be consider essential for life - carbon , hydrogen , nitrogen , oxygen , phosphorus and sulfur .
but the researcher find that the bacterium , discover in mono lake , calif. , be able to continue to grow after substitute arsenic for phosphorus .
`` it make you wonder what else be possible , '' say ariel d. anbar of arizona state university , a co-author of the report .
the find be important in the search for life beyond earth because researcher need to be able to recognize life , to know what life look like , anbar say .
the study focus on a microbe find on earth .
however , the announcement of a news_conference to discuss it , which do not disclose detail of the find , generate widespread speculation on the internet that the report would disclose the discovery of extraterrestrial life .
it do n't .
the discovery `` do show that in other planetary environment organism might be able to use other element to drive biochemistry and that the ` standard ' set of element we think be absolutely necessary for life might not be so fixed , '' comment charle cockell , professor at planetary and space science research institute , open_university , in milton keyne , united_kingdom .
cockell be not part of the research team .
`` this work be novel because it show the substitution of one element for another in fundamental biochemistry and biochemical structure , '' add cockell .
it be n't a chance discovery .
felisa wolfe-simon of nasa 's astrobiology institute , who lead the study , target mono lake because it have high arsenic level .
arsenic and phosphorus be chemically similar , so she speculate that a microbe expose to both might be able to substitute one for the other .
`` arsenic be toxic mainly because its chemical behavior be so similar to that of phosphorus . ''
`` as a result , organism have a hard_time tell these element apart . ''
`` but arsenic be different enough that it do n't work as well as phosphorus , so it get in there and sort of gum up the work of we biochemical machinery , '' explain anbar .
the researcher collect the bacterium know as gfaj-1 and expose it to increase concentration of arsenic , which it be able to adapt to and grow .
the microbe do grow better on phosphorus , but show that it can live with arsenic instead raise the possibility that a life_form use arsenic could occur naturally , either elsewhere on earth or on another planet or moon where arsenic be more common .
jamie s. foster , a assistant_professor of microbiology at the university of florida , say the idea that arsenic could be substitute for phosphorus be n't new , but there have never be example where it be show to work .
arsenic be more common in the early time on earth , she say , so researcher have speculate that early life_form might have use it .
`` it do suggest that that there could be other way to form life , not just how life form on early earth , '' say foster , who be not part of wolfe-simon 's research team .
the research be support by nasa , the department_of_energy and the national_institutes_of_health .
the democratic routine
support for democracy in latin_america continue to edge up , as do backing for private_enterprise .
crime have become a bigger worry than unemployment .
and brazil be see as more influential than the united_states across much of the region .
those be some of the finding of the latest latinobarómetro poll take in 18 country and publish exclusively by the economist .
because the poll have be take regularly since 1995 , it track change in attitude across the region .
two related thing stand out in the result of this year 's poll , take in september and early october .
the first be latin_america 's fairly sunny mood .
the second be the increase stability of attitude towards democracy and its core institution .
support for democracy have rise noticeably in several country on the pacific rim of south_america ( see table 1 ) .
for example in peru , where economic_growth have average 6 % a year since 2002 , support for democracy have rise from a low of 40 % in 2005 to 61 % this year .
it also rise in mexico , where the economy have recover after suffer a big drop in output last year .
but only around half of respondent in mexico and brazil , the region 's two most populous country , be convinced democrat , which drag down the regional average ( see chart 2 ) .
some 44 % of respondent across the region pronounce themselves satisfy with how they country 's democracy work in practice , the same figure as last year but a big increase on the 25 % in 2001 ( chart 3 ) .
some 34 % say they have confidence in they country 's congress and 45 % in they government , the same as last year in both case but up sharply from 2003 ( 17 % and 24 % respectively ) .
a decade ago economic woe in latin_america undermine support for democracy .
that it have hold up during the world financial crisis be probably because many latin american country suffer only a brief recession and have enjoy a strong recovery .
in addition , a stronger social safety_net have help to shield the poor .
( the united_nations ' economic_commission_for_latin_america report this week that the proportion of latin american live in poverty rise only marginally in 2009 and have fall again this year , to 32 % . -rrb-
but the mood vary widely from country to country ( see chart 4 ) .
brazil 's strong economic performance and the popularity of its outgoing president , luiz inácio lulum da silva , be reflect in a widely share sense of progress .
that be scarcer in mexico and central_america , where the recession be more severe and violent crime have worsen .
for only the second time since the poll begin , more respondent across latin_america as a whole cite crime , rather than unemployment , as the most important problem face they country ( see chart 5 ) .
some 31 % say that either they or a close relative have be victim of crime over the past year , but that be down from 38 % last year and be the lowest figure since 1995 .
a more robust economic performance be reflect in rise support for private_enterprise and the market_economy : some 71 % of respondent across the region say that private_enterprise be indispensable for development , up from 56 % in 2007 ( see chart 6 ) .
some 58 % agree that the market_economy be the only system that will make they country develop , up from 47 % last year .
interestingly , 62 % of respondent in venezuela hold that view ( and 80 % there back private_enterprise ) even though they left-wing president , hugo chávez , be expropriate many private company .
brazil be the country which exercise most leadership in the region , mention by 19 % of respondent ( up from 18 % last year ) , follow by the united_states ( 9 % , unchanged from last year ) and venezuela ( 9 % , down from 11 % last year ) .
but the united_states be see as the most influential country by respondent in mexico and much of central_america , whereas venezuela enjoy that distinction in ecuador , the dominican_republic and nicaragua .
scalium and thoma dine with healthcare law challenger as court take case
the day the supreme_court gather behind close door to consider the politically divisive question of whether it would hear a challenge to president obama 's healthcare law , two of its justice , antonin scalium and clarence thoma , be fete at a dinner sponsor by the law_firm that will argue the case before the high_court .
the occasion be last thursday , when all nine justice meet for a conference to pour over the petition for review .
one of the case at issue be a suit bring by 26 state challenge the sweeping healthcare overhaul pass by congress last year , a law that have be a rallying_cry for conservative activist nationwide .
the justice agree to hear the suit ; indeed , a landmark 5.5 - hour argument be expect in march , and the outcome be likely to further roil the 2012 presidential race , which will be in full swing by the time the court 's decision be release .
the lawyer who will stand before the court and argue that the law should be throw out be likely to be paul clement , who serve as u.s. solicitor general during the george w. bush administration .
clement 's law_firm , bancroft pllc , be one of almost two_dozen firm that help sponsor the annual dinner of the federalist society , a longstanding group dedicate to advocate conservative legal_principle .
another firm that sponsor the dinner , jone day , represent one of the trade association that challenge the law , the national federation of independent business .
another sponsor be pharmaceutical giant pfizer inc , which have a enormous financial stake in the outcome of the litigation .
the dinner be hold at a washington hotel hour after the court 's conference over the case .
in attendance be , among other , mitch mcconnell , the senate 's top republican and a avowed opponent of the healthcare law .
the featured guest at the dinner ? scalium and thoma .
it ' nothing new : the two justice have be attend federalist society event for year .
and it ' nothing that run afoul of ethic rule .
in fact , justice be exempt from the code_of_conduct that govern the action of lower federal justice .
if they be , they arguably fall under code 's canon 4c , which state , `` a judge may attend fund-raising event of law-related and other organization although the judge may not be a speaker , a guest_of_honor , or feature on the program of such a event . ''
nevertheless , the sheer proximity of scalium and thoma to two of the law_firm in the case , as well as to a company with a massive financial interest , be enough to alarm ethics-in-government activist .
`` this stunning breach of ethic and indifference to the code belie claim by several justice that the court abide by the same rule that apply to all other federal judge , '' say bob edgar , the president of common cause .
`` the justice be wine and dine at a black-tie fundraiser with attorney who have pend case before the court . ''
they appearance and assistance in fundraise for this event undercut any claim of impartiality , and be unacceptable .
scalium and thoma have show little regard for critic who say they too readily mix the business of the court with agenda-driven group such as the federalist society .
and thoma '' wife , ginnus , be a high-profile conservative activist .
moreover , conservative argue that it ' justice elena kagan who have a ethical issue , not scalium and thoma .
kagan serve as solicitor_general in the obama administration when the first legal challenge to the law be bring at the trial_court level .
she critic have push for kagan to recuse herself from hear the case , say that she be too invest in defend the law then to be impartial now .
kagan have give no indication she will do so .
the familiarity of the spanish be higher than that of the tico
of the 22 player call in spain , ten pass 50 international game .
on the side of costa_rica only one of 22 call player reach 50 game .
a minor contrast to costa_rica , compare the 22 player call by both country for the friendly game today , at 3:05 pm at the national stadium in san_jose .
while the europe and world champion , number_one one in the monthly top of fifa , have a long record of class a inter selection , the tricolor have only the defender michael umana as the only one who have 50 international game .
that number be reach friday before the game against panama ( 0-2 ) , in rommel fernandez .
spanish football_player play in the all-star league and in powerful club of the premier league of england be during the year very active in league and local cup competition and there be high-level shock in the european cup and european champion league .
to this be add the spanish fury experience in complicated qualification for euro cup and world_cup .
the tico player , however , have a limited international experience in a area such as concacaf , which be consider the lowest level within fifa
we see that the peak of the spanish selection be the goalkeeper iker casilla , who last saturday against england ( game lose with 0-1 in london ) equal the record of the ex goalkeeper andonus zubizarreta , with 126 international match .
casilla will play today against the tricolor and will impose a new record of 127 international match for spain .
xavus hernandez , the player of barcelona , have 106 match .
casilla and xavus be recognize last week by uefa together with the other player of the iberian team , zubizarreta with 126 match and schalke striker raul gonzalez with 102 .
almost near the centennial number be carle puyol , with 97 game .
xabus alonso follow they with 91 , fernando torre , with 90 , david villa and sergio ramo , both with 81 , andre iniesta , with 62 , cesc fabrega , with 61 , and david silva , with 53 .
on costa rican side , and close to michael umana , be the left-lateral junior diaz , with 48 match and the striker bryan ruiz , with 45 .
after this , only five exceed the 30 game : keilor nava with 31 , randall azofeifa with 32 , michael barrante with 31 , carlo hernandez with 36 and jose lui lopez with 35 .
the least .
more than 30 match in spain have gerard piqué ( 37 ) , sergio busquet ( 36 ) , santiago santus cazorlum ( 32 ) , alvaro arbeloa ( 31 ) and raul albiol ( 31 ) .
on the national side , with less than 30 presence , there be roy miller with 26 , winston park with 26 , gabriel badillum with 25 and roy myrie with 23 .
the rest do n't come near the 20 .
while nacho moreal have only four game and jordus alba two , in costa_rica victor bolivar have only one olman varga and nelson edder do not debut yet .
the lead scorer of spain be david villa be , with 50 goal , follow by fernando torre with 27 .
for costa rica , bryan ruiz be the one that register more point , two more than carlo hernandez and three more than roy myrie and park .
be immigration a burden or a opportunity for the economy ?
immigration policy under nicola sarkozy be criticise from various aspect a congestion of police , legal and administrative service subject to a policy of number and the compatibility of that policy with the self-proclaimed status of the country as the country of french human_right .
more recently , it be administrative harassment of foreign student , which be topical , with the minister of the interior ( `` libération '' on 23 may ) declare that france `` do not need foreign talent , bricklayer and waiter . ''
but it be only rarely analyze from the economic viewpoint .
there be a lot of consensus between the left and the right on this subject .
on the right , the tone be set by jacque chirac , who declare in 1976 that `` 900,000 unemployed would not become a problem in a country with 2 million of foreign worker , '' and on the left by michel rocard explain in 1990 that france `` can not accommodate all the world 's misery . ''
the only difference , the degree of generosity
in 2005 , the fear of invasion of the national territory by horde of polish plumber be feel both on the left and on the right .
both side see immigrant as a burden on the french economy and on french society .
the only difference reside in the degree of generosity , which one deign to grant to immigrant .
in he program , françois hollande confines himself to banality , say that co-development would allow we immigration problem to be solve . ''
this notion of immigration be a burden and a problem , may be a electoral asset , but it be economically very costly .
as the economist ian goldin and geoffrey cameron , remind we in a recent book summarise the most recent knowledge of immigration ( exceptional people : how migration shaped our world and will define our future , mai 2011 , princeton university press , 352 pp . ) , there be wide consensus among specialist on the positive impact of migration flow on economic_growth , wage and employment in country , which admit immigrant .
restraining immigration lead to anaemic growth and harm employment .
fear about the impact of immigrant be base on the notion that they be liable to replace native worker , in particular unskilled one , exert downward pressure on wage .
but experience show that in reality immigrant be much more complementary to , rather than replacement of , local labor , exercise trade in which there be a shortage of local labor .
unskilled immigrant work in sector , which do not attract local labor and the most highly skilled one in dynamic sector where training do be not link to offer of employment .
a positive effect on wage
in the same way as a surgeon would find it difficult to work in a country with a shortage of anaesthetist , the complementarity exist between local and immigrant bring it about that the arrival of immigrant have a positive effect on the pay of local .
giovannus perus have calculate that a rise of 1 % in the migratory flow cause a increase of between 0,6 and 0,9 % in real long-term pay .
and do so without take into account the fact that the diversity contribute by immigrant contribute to the creation of idea and to economic_growth ( a large proportion of naturalised immigrant be among american nobel_prize winner , whilst google , intel , paypal , ebay and yahoo be all found by immigrant ) .
migrant be also net contributor to social_system , average 1 % of the total budget of european_country .
the world labor organisation estimate that for example in germany , a immigrant arrive at the age of 30 , will make a net contribution ( receipt less expenditure ) of a average of 150,000 euro to public budget during he lifetime .
nicola sarkozy wish at the start of he mandate to look for miss point of growth `` with the tooth . ''
the tooth in question , intend to serve to dissuade immigrant , have precisely the opposite effect .
deutsche bank pay multi-million pound fine in the usa
fresh trouble be follow hard on the heel of the uproar around josef ackermann , ceo of deutsche bank : deutsche bank face a multi-million pound fine in the usa .
as if the problem at home be not already enough for deutsche bank , the industry giant 's past in the usa be now also catch up with it . frankfurt-based deutsche bank will pay 145 million dollar ( 106 million euro ) to settle dispute arise from the bankruptcy of five major credit_union during the financial crisis .
the issue centre on the sale of mortgage security .
the national credit union administration ( ncua ) , a financial market regulator , accuse a string of major bank of have use false promise to mislead credit_union into buy the financial product .
the value of the security drop dramatically during the financial crisis and bring down the credit_union .
`` we be happy to have resolve the issue without the party go to court , '' say a deutsche bank spokesman in new_york .
the bank do not admit culpability in the settlement .
the same be true of citigroup , which agree to pay 20.5 million dollar .
the ncua chairman , debbie matz , welcome the responsiveness of the two bank .
the national credit union administration ( ncua ) be responsible for the us credit_union and intervene in bankruptcy to protect customer deposit .
the ncua be fight for compensation for loss that run into the billion .
the current settlement be the first of they kind .
the regulator have also approach other major bank and sue jpmorgan chase , the royal bank of scotland and goldman sach in the summer .
the dubious mortgage security be so-called mortgage-backed_security .
they be underpin by home loan .
this seal the fate of a number of financial company when the us property bubble explode in 2007 .
the us investment bank , lehman brother , go belly-up in september 2008 at the height of the financial crisis .
the bank battle against a strong wind in the usa several year later .
investor and regulator have bring a vast number of claim for compensation or to punish misconduct .
the federal housing finance agency ( fhfa ) have be behind the largest wave of claim .
it accuse 18 major international bank of have take in us lender fannie_mae and freddie_mac on mortgage transaction value at around 200 billion dollar .
deutsche bank also face legal_action by the fhfa cover multiple transaction with a total value of 14.2 billion dollar from 2005 to 2007 .
the regulator be demand that the frankfurt-based bank take responsibility for `` substantial loss , '' but have not yet specify the exact sum .
deutsche bank have reject the claim as baseless and have declare its intention to fend off the claim .
