that ' what the man have say .
haney peer doubtfully at he drinking companion through bleary , tear-filled eye .
he have no ready answer , as much from surprise as from the fit of coughing .
be the man drunk or crazy or both ?
but he newfound buddy have match he drink for drink until he lose count , and the man 's eye be still clear .
the guy be off he rocker , haney think to himself , and look_away from those eye .
eye that be clear , but also bright with a strange intensity , a sort of cold fire burn behind they .
why have n't he notice it before ?
no , the man be not drunk
he wonder how he get tie up with this stranger .
but , of course , he remember now .
it be blur , after two hour of steady drinking , but the occasion of it come_back to he .
the stranger , he head seemingly sink in thought , start to cross the street against the light just as a huge moving_van roar through the intersection .
brake howl and a horn blare furiously , but the man would have be hit if phil have n't call_out to he a second before .
he shout have be involuntary , something anybody might have do without thinking , on_the_spur_of_the_moment .
as_a_matter_of_fact , he would n't have care at all if the guy have be hit .
actually , he regret have open he mouth when the truck come_to a stop and the angry driver jump down from the cab and walk back toward they .
by then , the stranger be thank haney profusely and have one arm around he shoulder as if he be a old friend .
so the driver start to curse at both of they as if they have be in a plot together to ruin he safe record .
then the man he save turn and look squarely into the truck_driver 's face , without say a word .
very suddenly , the driver stop swear at they , turn on he heel and go back to he truck .
haney have n't give it much thought at the time .
now he recall it very clearly , and wonder what the truck driver have see in those eye to make he back off .
it must have be the sort of look that can call a bluff without say a word .
when the light go they way , they go_on across the street .
and when the stranger find_out that phil be on_the_way to one of he favorite bar , he insist on offer to buy drink for both of they .
phil usually go alone and keep_to_oneself , sit in a corner and pass the time by nurse he favorite grudge .
but he decide he would n't mind company in_return for free drink , even though he make good money at he job .
phil be like that .
now he wonder if it be worth it , have a screwball for company .
he really do n't take the offer seriously , but he begin to feel uneasy .
when he finally get the coughing under control , he realize that pete -lrb- all he give be he first_name -rrb- be still wait for a answer -- he do n't even seem to wink as he continue to stare .
haney manage a weak laugh .
`` guess I ca n't think_of of anyone , pete .
thanks anyhow ``
a faint crease appear between the man 's eyebrow .
`` I think you be n't take I seriously , phil .
I mean it .
and everybody have some kind of grudge .
I might have get hit by that truck if it be n't for you .
I believe in return favor .
I will do anything for somebody I like .
it wo n't cost you a cent , phil .
go_ahead and try I `` ! !
phil rub he forehead wearily .
he be begin to feel woolly .
maybe it would be better to humor the guy and then make a exit .
he really do n't expect anything to come of it , and there be a few people
`` all right `` , he concede finally , `` if you must know , I do n't get_along_with the landlord .
he keep ride I because I like to listen to the radio and sing while I be take a bath .
he say the neighbor complain , but I do n't believe it .
why do n't they tell I themselves if it bother they `` ?
the man close he eye and nod .
when he look up again , he seem almost content .
`` fine .
give I you address .
it will take a little time .
I want to study you landlord 's habit and movement first .
you see , I always make it look_like like a accident .
maybe suicide , if it look reasonable .
in that way there ' no trouble for the customer `` .
haney 's eyebrow fly up .
`` customer `` ?
pete smile modestly .
`` it ' my line_of_work `` , he say
five minute later , before haney could make he break , the stranger stand_up and nod farewell .
haney watch the small but wiry man slip out the door quickly and silently , and feel relieve to see that nobody else seem to notice he departure .
phil decide to stay a little longer , and as time pass it seem as if the strange little man have never be there , but for the other glass on the table .
some time before midnight he return to he apartment and hit_the_sack , put the whole incident out of mind before he fall_asleep .
the next day , sunday , the hangover remind haney where he have be the night before .
the hangover in turn remind he of he conversation with the weirdy , and he groan .
he go for more aspirin later in the day , and pass the surly landlord on_the_way -- he be still alive and scowling as_usual , as if tenant be a burden in he life .
phil shrug and ignore he .
he go back to work monday .
by wednesday the landlord be still alive .
of_course on thursday , haney mail the monthly check for separate maintenance to he wife lolly , and wish the stranger could do something about she
come home from work , he be startle to see a police car park in front of the apartment building .
inside the lobby , people be stand around , talk excitedly .
he spine crawl with a foreboding premonition as he ask one of he fellow tenant what have happen .
the landlord have die .
late that afternoon , it seem , he have fall off the roof while on some obscure errand or inspection .
he have apparently be alone .
nobody witness the fall -- just the sickening impact when he body smash on the pavement just outside the basement delivery entrance .
haney hope that nobody notice he sudden pallor , as he feel the blood drain from he cheek .
he mutter something about how terrible it be , and walk with deliberate slowness to the elevator .
once inside he apartment , he pour a drink with tremble hand and flop limply in a chair .
after a while he begin to feel better about it , especially when no one bother to ask any question .
but after all , why should they ?
still later , he finally convince himself that it be a accident -- just a coincidence .
the stranger really have nothing to do with it , of course
haney go_to_bed , happy that at least he be rid of that lousy landlord .
after all , the man have no family , so no one suffer , and everybody be better off for it .
really , he say to himself , nobody kill a man just as a favor ! !
so you think I do n't mean what I say .
the stranger 's eye be large and sad , as if phil haney have hurt he feeling .
it be like a recurrent , annoying dream , but now the dream be begin to take on overtone of a nightmare .
however , haney know it be not a dream .
he might be very tight , but he know where he be .
it be the same bar , and it be two week later -- saturday night , when he have a excuse to drink heavier than usual .
he have be sit in the usual corner at the little table , as_far_as_possible from any talkative , friendly lush .
he be enjoy the weekly ritual of wash_down he pet grievance with bourbon slightly moisten with water .
this favorite grievance be not the landlord .
he have already quite forget about he .
in fact , he have only mention he on the spur of the moment .
he real grievance be lolly .
toward the end of he fourth hairy highball , while he be moodily make wet ring on the table-top with the bottom of the glass , he become aware that he be not alone .
he look up with bloodshot eye and behold the stranger sit across the table , smile a secret smile at he , as if they be fellow conspirator .
he have n't even notice -- what be he name ? pete ? -- he have n't see he sit_down .
the man be uncanny , like a shadow , and make as much noise as a shadow .
haney feel_like shrink out_of_sight , but he be already trap in the corner with the wiry , dark little man .
he begin to wish that he have n't shout that other evening when the truck bear_down through the crossing .
be he go to be saddle from now on with a creep for a bar ?
he 'd have to start go to some of the other place again .
in a low voice , almost whisper , the man have ask phil if he be happy with the way the landlord have be take_off he back .
he make the mistake of answer in a offhand way , and instantly realize that he skepticism must have show in he face or voice .
pete frown slightly , then become sad and moody .
haney do n't want to encourage he company , but feel he ought to buy he a drink anyhow , to prevent possible trouble .
but there be no trouble .
the guy sulk over he drink , obviously upset by haney 's lack of appreciation .
to break the uncomfortable silence , haney begin to talk .
in time , and two drink later , he be complain bitterly about he wife , he be on the subject for ten minute or so when he notice the renewed interest in he listener -- it show in the alert face and the suddenly bright eye .
when he pause to moisten he throat , the stranger break_in .
`` but why pay she bill ?
if she run_around with other man , and if you hate she as you say , why not just divorce she `` ?
haney scowl .
`` that bitch would love a divorce `` , he growl .
`` then she 'd get half of everything I have .
community_property deal -- you know .
I 'd have to sell_out my business to pay_off she off with she share .
she can drop dead `` ! !
pete nod understandingly .
`` oh yes .
now I see .
you must understand , I have n't be in this state too long .
I come out here to retire .
that ' why I -- why I do a free job now and then .
you should have tell I about she before `` .
haney feel a twinge of annoyance when he hear the now familiar line again .
then a wild thought run circle through he clouded brain .
suppose -- just suppose this guy be really what he say he be t ! !
a retired professional killer
if he be just a nut , no harm be do .
but if he be the real_thing , he could do something about lolly .
he feel very cunning , very proud of himself as he play on the other man 's soft_spot .
`` no offense intend `` , he say gently .
`` but it ' just that -- well , you know .
the cop do n't suspect a thing , and I think it be a coincidence .
after all , I do n't know you , pete .
it could have be a accident `` .
he shrug casually .
`` but if you say you manage it ``
the stranger be hook .
he eye burn feverishly .
`` yes , yes `` , he mutter impatiently .
`` of_course it look like a accident .
I always work it that way -- and always at a time when the customer have a alibi .
let I prove it , phil .
I think I can manage one more favor for you `` .
he wait eagerly .
haney swish the liquor in the bottom of he glass .
tuesday 's rout of a gop congressional hopeful in a mississippus district that have n't back a democratic presidential candidate since adlaus stevenson be another reminder that , at least at the federal level , political `` ticket splitting `` have be on the rise over the past half-century .
in only one presidential election year prior to 1948 do more than 20 percent of the nation 's congressional district choose a different party 's candidate for the white house than for the house of representative .
now that percentage routinely equal a third and twice have be above 40 percent .
as we know , voter tend to favor republican more in race for president than in those for congress .
in every presidential election over the past half-century , except for the goldwater presidential candidacy , the gop have capture a greater percentage of the major - party popular vote for president than it have of congressional seat or the popular vote for congress .
prior to 1932 , the pattern be nearly the opposite .
what account for the result of recent decade ?
a simple economic theory may provide at least a partial explanation for the split_personality display by american in the voting_booth .
the theory rely on three assumption :
1 -rrb- voter can `` buy `` one of two brand when they select they political agent -- a republican brand that believe_in in the minimalist state and in the virtue of private market over the vice of public action , and a democratic brand that believe_in in big government and in public intervention to remedy the excess attendant to the pursuit of private interest .
2 -rrb- congressional representative have two basic responsibility while vote in office -- deal with national issue -lrb- programmatic action such as cast roll_call vote on legislation that impose cost and/or confer benefit on the population at large -rrb- and attend_to to local issue -lrb- constituency service and pork_barrel -rrb- .
3 -rrb- republican congressional representative , because of they belief in a minimalist state , be less willing to engage in local benefit-seeking than be democratic member of congress .
if these assumption hold , voter in race for congress face what in economic theory be call a prisoner 's dilemma and have a incentive , at the margin , to lean democratic .
if they put a republican into office , not only will they acquire less in term of local benefit but they select legislator will be relatively powerless to prevent other legislator from `` bring home the bacon `` to they respective constituency .
each legislator , after all , be only one out of 535 when it come_to to national policy making .
in race for the white house , a voter 's incentive , at the margin , be to lean republican .
although a gop president may limit local benefit to the voter 's particular district , such a president be also likely to be more effective at prevent other district and they legislator from bring_home the local benefit .
the individual voter 's standing consequently will be enhance through lower tax .
while this theory be exceedingly simple , it appear to explain several thing .
first , why ticket splitting have increase and take the peculiar pattern that it have over the past half-century : prior to the election of franklin roosevelt as president and the advent of the new deal , government occupy a much smaller role in society and the prisoner 's dilemma problem confront voter in race for congress be considerably less severe .
second , it explain why voter hold congress in disdain but generally love they own congressional representative : any individual legislator 's constituent appreciate the specific benefit that the legislator win for they but not the overall cost associate with every other legislator do likewise for he own constituency .
third , the theory suggest why legislator who pay too much attention to national policy making relative to local benefit-seeking have lower security in office .
for_example , first member of the house , once the most vulnerable of incumbent , have become virtually immune to defeat .
the one exception to this recent trend be the defeat of 13 of the 52 freshman republican bring into office in 1980 by the reagan revolution and run for reelection in 1982 .
because these freshman place far more emphasis on they partisan role -- spread the reagan revolution -- in national policy make , they be more vulnerable to defeat .
fourth , the theory indicate why the republican party may have a difficult time attract viable candidate for congressional office .
potential candidate may be discourage from run less by the congressional salary than by the prospect of defeat at the hand of a democratic opponent .
to the extent that potential republican candidate and they financial backer realize that the congressional prisoner 's dilemma game work to they disadvantage , the republican party will be hinder in its attempt to field a competitive slate of congressional candidate .
fifth , the theory may provide at least a partial reason for why ticket splitting have be particularly pronounce in the south .
to the extent that democratic legislator from the south have hold a disproportionate share of power in congress since 1932 and have be able to translate such clout into relatively more local benefit for they respective constituency , voter in the south have have a especially strong incentive to keep such democrat in office .
finally , the theory suggest why republican generally have fare better in senate race than in campaign for the house .
since local benefit matter more and national policy making matter less in the lower chamber of congress , this be precisely the pattern one would expect if republican be less willing to engage in local benefit than they democratic counterpart .
be there any empirical support for this theory ?
three piece of evidence corroborate the key assumption that democratic legislator be more willing to engage in local benefit than they republican colleague .
first , economist jame bennett and thoma dilorenzo find that gop senator turn_back roughly 10 % more of they allocate personal staff budget than democrat do .
to the extent that the primary duty of personal staff involve local benefit , this indicate that political philosophy lead congressional republican to pay less attention to narrow constituent concern .
second , if the key assumption be valid , democrat should have lower attendance rate on roll_call vote than republican do to the extent that such vote reflect national policy making and that participate in such vote take away from the time a legislator could otherwise devote to local benefit .
this be indeed what the datum indicate , particularly in the case of the house .
the democratic house attendance rate have not exceed the republican house attendance rate since 1959 .
finally , as show in the table , democrat allocate a higher proportion of they personal staff to district office -- where local benefit duty matter more and national policy making activity matter less relative to washington office .
a examination of change in personal staffing decision in the senate between 1986 and 1987 -lrb- when control of that body change_hands party hand -rrb- , moreover , reveal that the personal staffing difference note in the table can not be attribute to the disproportionate control democrat exercise , due to they majority status , over other resource such as committee staff .
a additional piece of evidence from the senate : hold other factor constant , such as incumbency advantage and regional factor , the difference between popular vote for republican presidential and senatorial candidate in state conduct a senate election turn_out to be a positive function of how onerous the federal_government 's tax burden be per state -lrb- a progressive tax_rate hit high - income state harder -rrb- .
put more simply , gop candidate for president be look_on more kindly by voter than republican candidate for the senate when the prisoner 's dilemma be more severe .
moreover , ticket splitting appear to take the same peculiar pattern at the state government level as it do at the federal level .
state government be more typically split along republican-governor / democratic-legislature line than the reverse .
a cross-state econometric investigation , furthermore , reveal that , hold other factor constant , the difference between a state 's major - party vote go to the republican gubernatorial candidate and the republican share of the lower state house be a positive function of the state tax_rate .
in sum , at both the federal and state government level at least part of the seemingly irrational behavior voter display in the voting_booth may have a exceedingly rational explanation .
mr. zupan teach at the university of southern californium 's business_school .
in the long , frightening night after tuesday 's devastate earthquake , bay area resident search for comfort and solace wherever they could .
some find it on the screen of a personal_computer .
hundred of californian make they way to they computer after the quake , and check in with each other on electronic bulletin_board , which link computer cb-radio-style , via phone_line .
some of the most vivid bulletin come over the well , a sausalito , calif. , board that be one of the liveliest outpost of the electronic underground .
about two-thirds of the well 's 3,000 subscriber live in the bay area .
the quake knock_out the well out for six hour , but when it come_up back up , it teem with emotional firsthand report .
follow be excerpt from the electronic traffic that night .
the time be pacific daylight time , and the initial or nickname be those subscriber use to identify themselves .
11:54 p.m .
jckc :
wow !
I be in the avenue , on the third floor of a old building , and except for my heart -lrb- beat , beat ! -rrb- I be ok .
get back to bolina , and everything have fall : broken poster frame with glass on the floor , file_cabinet open or dump onto the floor .
11:59 p.m .
jkd :
I be in my favorite watering hole , wait for the game to start .
I feel the temblor begin and glance at the table next to mine , smile that guilty smile and we both mouth the word , `` earthquake ! `` together .
that ' usually how long it take for the temblor to pass .
this time , it just get stronger and then the building start shake violently up and down as though it be a child 's toy block that be be toss .
12:06 a.m .
hrh :
I be in the berkeley main library when it hit .
endless second wonder if those huge window would buckle and shower we with glass .
only a few book fall in the reading_room .
then the auto paint shop fire send a evil-looking cloud of black smoke into the air .
12:07 a.m .
onezie :
my younger daughter and I be fine .
this building shake like hell and it keep get stronger .
except for the gas_tank at hustead 's towing service explode and burn in downtown berkeley , thing here be quite peaceful .
a lot of car alarm go_off .
the cat be fine , although nervous .
12:15 a.m .
dhawk :
huge fire from break gas_main in the marina in sf .
area that be make of ` fill ' liquefy .
a woman in a three apartment be able to walk out the window of the third floor onto street level after the quake .
the house just settle right down into the ground .
12:38 a.m .
dayac :
I be drive my truck , stop at a red_light at the corner of shattuck and alcatraz at the oakland-berkeley border when it hit .
worst part be watch power_line wave above my head and no way to drive away .
12:48 a.m .
lmeyer :
be 300 foot out on a pier in san rafael .
it flop all around , real dramatic !
many hairline crack in the concrete slab afterwards .
ruin the damn fishing !
1:00 a.m .
heynow :
I ride_out it out on the second floor of leo 's at 55th and telegraph in oakland .
I hear part of the building above my head crack .
I actually think that I might die .
I could n't decide if I should come home to marin , because my house be on stilt .
I decide to brave the storm .
there be a horrible smell of gas as I pass the chevron refinery before cross the richmond-san rafael bridge .
I could also see the cloud across the bay from the horrible fire in the marina district of san francisco .
I have feel many aftershock .
my back be still in knot and my hand be still shake .
I think a few of the aftershock might just be my body shake .
1:11 a.m.
gr8flred :
I could see the flame from san francisco from my house across the bay .
it ' hard to believe this really be happen .
1:11 a.m .
rd :
building on the corner severely damage , so a old lady and she very old mother be in the guestroom .
book and software everywhere .
this be type in a standing position .
1:20 a.m .
dgault :
bolina -- astride the san andrea fault .
do n't feel a thing , but notice some strange bird behavior .
duck swarm .
3:25 a.m .
samurai :
I just feel another aftershock a few second ago .
I be just numb .
3:25 a.m .
macpost :
downtown bolina seem to be the part of town that ' worst off .
no power , minimal phone , and a mess of mayonnaise , wine , and everything else all over the floor of the big old general_store and the people 's co-op .
the quiver move through my house every few minute at unpredictable interval , and the mouse that ' be live in my kitchen have take refuge under my desk .
it run_out frantically now and then , and be clearly pretty distressed .
I be in stinson beach when the quake roll through town .
at first , we be unfazed .
then as thing get rougher , we run for the door and spend the next few minute outside watch the brick sidewalk under we foot ooze up and down , and the flower wave in a eerie rhythm .
amazing what it do to one 's heart_rate and one 's short-term memory .
everyone look calm , but there be this surreal low level of confusion as the aftershock continue .
4:02 a.m .
shibumus :
power be back on , and ucsf -lcb- medical_center -rcb- seem to have quiet_down for the night -lrb- they be do triage out in the parking_lot from the sound and light of it -rrb- .
a friend of mine be in a underground computer center in downtown sf when the quake hit .
he say that one of the computer take a three trip slide across the floor .
today should be interesting as people realize how hard life be go to be here for a while .
4:30 a.m .
kim :
I get home , let the dog into the house and notice some sound above my head , as if someone be walk on the roof , or upstairs .
then I notice the car be bounce up and down as if someone be jump on it .
I realize what be happen and scream into the house for the dog .
cupboard door be fly , the trash_can in the kitchen walk a few foot , the dog come run , and I scoot they into the dog run and stand in the doorway myself , watch the outside trash can dance across the concrete .
when I realize it be over , I go and stand out in_front of the house , wait and pray for merrill to come home , shiver as if it be 20 below zero until he get there .
never in my life have I be so frightened .
when I see the picture of 880 and the bay bridge , I begin to cry .
5:09 a.m .
jroe :
the sunset -lcb- district -rcb- be more or less like a pajama party all evening , lot of people &amp; dog walk_around , drink beer .
6:50 a.m .
carolg :
I be just sit_down to meet with some new therapy client , a couple , and the building start shake like_crazy .
it ' a flimsy structure , build up on support , and it be really rock around .
the three of we stop breathe for a moment , and then when it keep on come we lunge for the doorway .
needless to say , it be a interesting first session !
7:13 a.m .
calliope :
albany escape embarrassingly unscathed .
biggest trouble be scare family who could n't get_through a phone_line through , and spend a really horrible hour not know .
8:01 a.m .
hlr :
judy and I be in we backyard when the lawn start roll like ocean wave .
we run into the house to get mame , but the next tremor throw I in the air and bounce I as I try to get to my foot .
we be all fine here , although mame be extremely freak .
kitchen full of broken crystal .
book and tape all over my room .
not one thing in the house be where it be suppose to be , but the structure be fine .
while I be stand on the lawn with mame , wait for another tremor , I notice that all the earthworm be emerge from the ground and slither across the lawn !
9:31 a.m.
gr8flred :
it ' amazing how one second can so completely change you life .
9:38 a.m .
fig :
I guess we be all live very tentatively here , wait for the expected but dreaded aftershock .
it ' hard to accept that it ' over and only take 15 second .
I wonder when we will be able to relax .
9:53 a.m .
panda :
flesh go to total alert for flight or fight .
nausea seem a commonplace symptom .
berkeley very quiet right now .
I walk along shattuck between delaware and cedar at a few minute before eight this morning .
next to chez panisse a homeless couple , bundle into a blue sleeping_bag , sit_up , say , `` good_morning `` and then the woman smile , say , `` be n't it great just to be alive ? ``
I agree .
it be .
great .
